Feature/trusted execution (#24)
distributed-technologies/wiki: trusted_execution/tpm.md

# Problem Statement

> We have needs for a safe place keep encryption keys, certificates and hash values in the boot process. the tool needs to have some kind of non volatile memmory and it should be able for us to communicate with rather easily.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have needs for a safe place to keep encryption keys, certificates and hash values in the boot process. The tool needs to have some kind of non volatile memory and it should be easy for us to communicate with.
```

# General Information:

> TPM follows a ISO standard created by TCG to ensure a standardized way for platform owners to use hardware security to validate software operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TPM follows an ISO standard created by TCG to ensure a standardized way for platform owners to use hardware security to validate software operations.
```

For a brief overview of different TPM categories [Brief Overview pdf](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/2019_TCG_TPM2_BriefOverview_DR02web.pdf) provides the most basic information

# TPM Architecture

> A TPM is some kind of tamper-resistant techonology that can perform cryptographic operations (including key generation) and protect small amounts of sensitive information, such aspasswords and cryptographic keys.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A TPM is some kind of tamper-resistant techonology that can perform cryptographic operations (including key generation) and protect small amounts of sensitive information, such as passwords and cryptographic keys.
```

> It is built as shown in the picture below with a non volatile storage to keep our certificates and encryption keys, a set of secure platform registers for hash values, and a interface enabling us to operate it. ![TPM Architecture](..\images\TPM_Architecture.jpg)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is built as shown in the picture below with a non volatile storage to keep our certificates and encryption keys, a set of secure platform registers for hash values, and a interface enabling us to operate it. ![TPM Architecture](../images/TPM_Architecture.jpg)
```

(source: https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/resource/trusted-platform-module-tpm-summary/)

# TCG Software Stack (TSS) - For communication and operation:

> To ensure a standardized way of operating a TPM, TCG created following TPM 2.0 ISO standard which describes an operations library TPM creators must implement: Publicly Available Standards 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure a standardized way of operating a TPM, TCG created the following TPM 2.0 ISO standard which describes an operations library TPM creators must implement: Publicly Available Standards 
```

> The ISO standard is derived out of the specifications that makes up the TCG software stack 2.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ISO standard is derived from the specifications that makes up the TCG software stack 2.0
```

> First off we have the [Tab (TPM access broker) and resource manager (RM) specification](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TSS_2p0_TAB_ResourceManager_v1p0_r18_04082019_pub.pdf). IT describes the physical capabilities and defines what kind of work the Tab and RM can do for the upper TSS layers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First off, we have the [Tab (TPM access broker) and resource manager (RM) specification](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TSS_2p0_TAB_ResourceManager_v1p0_r18_04082019_pub.pdf). It describes the physical capabilities and defines what kind of work the Tab and RM can do for the upper TSS layers.
```

Next is the [ marshaling and unmarshaling API (MUAPI) specification](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TCG_TSS_Marshaling_Unmarshaling_API_v1p0_r07_pub.pdf). It makes up a layer which is responsible for translating between the language specific representation (C) and the network data stream.

> [The command transmission interface (TCTI)](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TCG_TSS_TCTI_v1p0_r18_pub.pdf) is responsible for creating the transmission context between the higher and lower layers of the stack. Because the context is linking the message receiver and responder including sending it, this layer resembles the principles of OSIM layer 3, 4 and 5.

Reviewer: "Because the context is linking the message receiver and responder including sending it"

What is "it" in this context? I have a hard time inferring that

Author: expanded on the hole subject and the meaning of "it" reffering to the message being sendt between sender and responder

To interact with the lower levels of the TSS TCG created the [TSS API (SAPI) specification](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TSS_SAPI_v1p1_r29_pub_20190806.pdf) as an abstraction layer so that users don't have to write the raw instructions for the Tab and thereby make it easier for users to control TPM operations. 

Because the SAPI has a high complexity TCG made a specification for an even further abstraction with the [Enhanced system API (ESAPI)](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TSS_ESAPI_v1p0_r08_pub.pdf).
 

> To encrease the ease of use TGC made a very high level API as an abstraction layer on top of ESAPI that is called the [feature API (FAPI)](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TSS_FAPI_v0p94_r09_pub.pdf). This layer does some of the workload for the programmer by making default assumptions about objects and design choices. Which makes it so that 80% of TPM use cases can be programmed by interacting with the FAPI. For the last 20% that has to do custom configurations FAPI would have to be supplied by the other API layers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To increase the ease of use, TGC made a high level API as an abstraction layer on top of ESAPI that is called the [feature API (FAPI)](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TSS_FAPI_v0p94_r09_pub.pdf). This layer does some of the workload for the programmer by making default assumptions about objects and design choices. This makes it so that 80% of TPM use cases can be programmed by interacting with the FAPI. For the last 20% that has to do custom configurations, FAPI would have to be supplied by the other API layers. 
```

# Solutions
- Intel TXT
- AMD FTPM
- Self configured TPM stack

## Intel txt: 
Intel txt provides an extension to Intel's chipset and therefore enables a hard coupling between the hardware used, and the system.

> The result is a hardened chain of trust from secure boot to TPM measurements by utilizing the access to the Intel's chipset. Intel® Trusted Execution Technology  (Intel® TXT) Enabling Guide 

Reviewer 2: Missing link here? (Intel® TXT) Enabling Guide)

### Pros:

> Intel® TXT creates a secured environment for each application to run, which protects an application against software attacks from outside the environment Intel® Trusted Execution Technology (Intel® TXT) Overview .

Reviewer: ```
Intel® TXT creates a secured environment for each application to run, which protects an application against software attacks from outside the environment Intel® Trusted Execution Technology (Intel® TXT) Overview .
```
What does the last part after the word "environment" mean? It seems like it should have been a headline or a link

Author: it was supposed to be a link

> That should also make us able to create operation policies based on security clearances. In short we can defines which processor are allowed to perform tasks with higher security clearance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That should also make us able to create operation policies based on security clearances. In short we can defines which processor is allowed to perform tasks with higher security clearance.
```

### Cons:

> Because the stack uses the tool [TrouSerS](https://sourceforge.net/p/trousers/trousers/ci/master/tree/) It is unclear if this stack supports the 64 bit architecture and TPM 2.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the stack uses the tool [TrouSerS](https://sourceforge.net/p/trousers/trousers/ci/master/tree/) it is unclear if this stack supports the 64 bit architecture and TPM 2.0.
```

# Problem Statement
We have needs for a safe place keep encryption keys, certificates and hash values in the boot process. the tool needs to have some kind of non volatile memmory and it should be able for us to communicate with rather easily.

# General Information:
TPM follows a ISO standard created by TCG to ensure a standardized way for platform owners to use hardware security to validate software operations.
For a brief overview of different TPM categories [Brief Overview pdf](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/2019_TCG_TPM2_BriefOverview_DR02web.pdf) provides the most basic information

# TPM Architecture
 A TPM is some kind of tamper-resistant techonology that can perform cryptographic operations (including key generation) and protect small amounts of sensitive information, such as passwords and cryptographic keys.

> It is built as shown in the picture below with a non volatile storage to keep our certificates and encryption keys, a set of secure platform registers for hash values, and a interface enabling us to operate it. ![TPM Architecture](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/4B9C7BAD-1D09-3519-AD3C14521816BC05.jpg)

Reviewer 2: Please add the image to the repo with proper credit. We want to avoid link rot :)

# TCG Software Stack (TSS) - For communication and operation:
To ensure a standardized way of operating a TPM, TCG created following TPM 2.0 ISO standard which describes an operations library TPM creators must implement: Publicly Available Standards 
 
The ISO standard is derived out of the specifications that makes up the TCG software stack 2.0

> First off we have the Tab (TPM access broker) and resource manager (RM) specification. IT describes the physical capabilities and defines what kind of work the Tab and RM can do for the upper TSS layers. [TAB & RM specification pdf](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TSS_2p0_TAB_ResourceManager_v1p0_r18_04082019_pub.pdf)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First off we have the [Tab (TPM access broker) and resource manager (RM) specification](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TSS_2p0_TAB_ResourceManager_v1p0_r18_04082019_pub.pdf). IT describes the physical capabilities and defines what kind of work the Tab and RM can do for the upper TSS layers.

> Next is the marshaling and unmarshaling API (MUAPI) specification. It makes up a layer which is responsible for translating between the language specific representation (C) and the network data stream. [MUAPI specification pdf](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TCG_TSS_Marshaling_Unmarshaling_API_v1p0_r07_pub.pdf)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next is the marshaling and unmarshaling API [(MUAPI) specification](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TCG_TSS_Marshaling_Unmarshaling_API_v1p0_r07_pub.pdf). It makes up a layer which is responsible for translating between the language specific representation (C) and the network data stream.
```

> The command transmission interface is responsible for creating the transmission context between the higher and lower layers of the stack. Because the context is linking the message receiver and responder including sending it, this layer resembles the principles of OSIM layer 3, 4 and 5. [TCTI specification pdf](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TCG_TSS_TCTI_v1p0_r18_pub.pdf)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[The command transmission interface](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TCG_TSS_TCTI_v1p0_r18_pub.pdf) is responsible for creating the transmission context between the higher and lower layers of the stack. Because the context is linking the message receiver and responder including sending it, this layer resembles the principles of OSIM layer 3, 4 and 5.
```

> On top of that TCG has created the TSS API (SAPI) specification as an abstraction layer so that users docent have to write the raw instructions for the Tab and thereby make it easier for users to control TPM operations. 
> [SAPI specification pdf](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TSS_SAPI_v1p1_r29_pub_20190806.pdf)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On top of that TCG has created the [TSS API (SAPI) specification](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TSS_SAPI_v1p1_r29_pub_20190806.pdf) as an abstraction layer so that users docent have to write the raw instructions for the Tab and thereby make it easier for users to control TPM operations. 
```

> Because the SAPI is still has a high complexity TCG made a specification for an even further abstraction with the Enhanced system API [(ESAPI) specifcation pdf](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TSS_ESAPI_v1p0_r08_pub.pdf)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because the SAPI has a high complexity [TCG made a specification for an even further abstraction with the Enhanced system API](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TSS_ESAPI_v1p0_r08_pub.pdf).
```

> To increase ease of use the TGC made a specification for a very high level API as an abstraction layer on top of ESAPI that is called the feature API (FAPI). This layer does some of the workload for the programmer by making default assumptions about objects and design choices. Which makes it so that 80% of TPM use cases can be programmed by interacting the FAPI. For the last 20% that has to do custom configurations FAPI would have to be supplied by the other API layers. 
> [FAPI specification pdf](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TSS_FAPI_v0p94_r09_pub.pdf)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To increase ease of use the TGC made a specification for a very high level API as an abstraction layer on top of ESAPI that is called the [feature API (FAPI)](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TSS_FAPI_v0p94_r09_pub.pdf). This layer does some of the workload for the programmer by making default assumptions about objects and design choices. Which makes it so that 80% of TPM use cases can be programmed by interacting with the FAPI. For the last 20% that has to do custom configurations FAPI would have to be supplied by the other API layers. 
```

# Solutions

> - Intel txt
> - Self configured tpm stack
> - AMD FTPM

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Intel TXT
- AMD FTPM
- Self configured TPM stack
```

## Intel txt: 

> Intel txt provides an extension to the intel chip set and therefore enables a hard coupling between the hardware used, and the system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Intel txt provides an extension to Intel's chipset and therefore enables a hard coupling between the hardware used, and the system.
```

> The result is a hardened chain of trust from secure boot to TPM measurements by utilizing the access to the Intel chip set. Intel® Trusted Execution Technology  (Intel® TXT) Enabling Guide 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The result is a hardened chain of trust from secure boot to TPM measurements by utilizing the access to the Intel's chipset. Intel® Trusted Execution Technology  (Intel® TXT) Enabling Guide 
```

### Pros:

> Intel txt creates a secured environment for each application to run, which protects an application against software attacks from outside the environment Intel® Trusted Execution Technology (Intel® TXT) Overview .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Intel TXT creates a secured environment for each application to run, which protects an application against software attacks from outside the environment Intel® Trusted Execution Technology (Intel® TXT) Overview .
```

That should also make us able to create operation policies based on security clearances. In short we can defines which processor are allowed to perform tasks with higher security clearance.
### Cons:

> Because the stack uses the tool [TrouSerS](https://sourceforge.net/p/trousers/trousers/ci/master/tree/) It is unsure if this stack supports x86 instructions and TPM v2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because the stack uses the tool [TrouSerS](https://sourceforge.net/p/trousers/trousers/ci/master/tree/) It is unclear if this stack supports the x86 architecture and TPM 2.0.
```

## AMD FTPM

> AMD has firmware TPM (FTPM) since the Ryzen 2500 CPU that only require us to enable it in the BIOS settings Here’s what you’ll need to upgrade to Windows 11 .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
AMD has firmware TPM (FTPM) since the Ryzen 2500 CPU that only require us to enable it in the BIOS.
```

### Pros:
This solution provides us with an easy TPM since it just comes with the CPU.
### Cons:
Unlike Intel TXT AMD does not provide extra utility in the form of chip extensions that can be used for enhanced security features. 
The solution only gives us a firmware TPM which is less secure than a discrete or integrated TPM.

> ## Self configured tpm stack

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Self configured TPM stack
```

> This option gives the platform owner, the possibility to create and support the chain of trust without being hardware restricted as much. In this instance we would be able to use the secure boot build by Kristian and apply a discrete TPM with a TSS that gives us everything we need to operate a TPM GitHub - tpm2-software/tpm2-tss: OSS implementation of the TCG TPM2 Software Stack (TSS2).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This option gives the platform owner, the possibility to create and support the chain of trust without being hardware restricted as much. In this instance we would be able to use the Secure Boot and apply a discrete TPM with a TSS that gives us everything we need to operate a TPM.
```
